Previously on Lost:
Now talk.
Think of the island like a record,
spinning on a turntable,
only now, that record is skipping.
Whatever Ben Linus did
at The Orchid station, it may have...
- ...dislodged us.
- Dislodged us from what?
Time.
Come on!
It's not stopping!
Charlotte!
We have to go back to The Orchid.
That's where all this started,
maybe it's where it will all stop.
This is because they left.
lt'll stop if I can bring them back.
- Bring who back?
- Jack.
Sun, Sayid, Hugo, Kate...
Don't you want her to come back?
- Want us to lower you down?
- Where would be the fun in that?
Uh-oh.
John! Damn it, hold on!
I think you can
let go of that now.
No.
No, no, no...
- James, don't.
- Come on, help me.
James... Stop.
We can't help him.
Wherever John went, he's gone.
And wherever we are
is before that well was ever built.
Yeah, I'd say way before.
What makes you...
James! Can you hear me?
Can anyone hear me?
What the hell was that?
That one was different.
That was more like an earthquake.
- Locke!
- James... Wait!
Great.
My headache is gone.
Yeah, mine is too.
And my nose isn't bleeding anymore.
I think it's over.
I think John did it.
Now what?
Now, we wait for him to come back.
For how long?
As long as it takes.
Are you kidding me? I'm gone ten minutes
and you're having a hootenanny?
Don't be such a bummer. Rosie was
just dropping off some brownies.
You should thank her.
She shouldn't be here, Jerry.
We're on the clock.
Mellow out, Phil.
What's gonna happen?
Polar bears gonna
figure a way out of their cages?
That's not the point.
If LaFleur finds out...
- LaFleur's not gonna find out.
- Guys?
- Relax, nobody's gonna find out.
What... ?
- Is that a hostile?
- I don't know.
Is that... Horace?
- He's got dynamite.
- Get her out of here. Now!
Rosie, don't tell
anyone you were here. Go!
- Oh, this is bad, man.
- We gotta get LaFleur.
- 3.00am. You wanna wake him?
- No, but...
- Maybe we can handle this.
- Maybe Horace blows himself up
and LaFleur kills us
for not waking him.
We gotta go. Now.
- You wanna knock?
- You knock.
Fine.
What?
Mr. LaFleur, sorry to bother you, but
we've got a situation out at the pylons.
What kind of situation?
lt's Horace.
He's got dynamite
and he's blowing up trees.
Son of a bitch.
Relax! I'm coming.
- Hey, boss.
- Evening, Enos. You got your zapper?
Yup. Wanna tell me why I need it?
Our fearless leader's
out blowing up trees.
Why's he doing that?
Because he's loaded.
- Since when does Horace drink?
- He doesn't.
So we're gonna keep this
on the down low.
- Oh, man.
- All right.
Put out that fire, pack up the dynamite.
I'll take him home.
Why don't you put out the fire,
pack up, and I'll take him home.
You wanna tell
Amy where we found him?
Help me get him up.
- Oh, my God, is he OK?
- You tell me.
Bring him inside.
The couch is fine.
Where'd you find him?
By the Flame. Blowing up trees
with dynamite.
Wanna tell me why?
- We had a fight.
- Must've been a doozy.
- Please, Jim... lt's personal.
- Personal?
You think this isn't gonna get out?
It'll be on the coconut
telegraph by breakfast.
It was about Paul.
Go on.
What's the matter? You OK?
The baby. It's coming!
Oh, hell.
Not gonna tell...
- Where's Red?
- I don't know.
I won't...
I won't tell.
Daniel?
Are you OK?
I'm not gonna do it.
I'm not gonna tell.
Daniel, where's Charlotte?
She's not here.
She... She's gone.
- Where?
- She's dead.
She's dead.
There was another flash...
...and she was just gone.
Her body just...
...disappeared.
She moved on, and we stayed.
- I'm so sorry.
- Hold on, wait a minute.
We stayed? We're not traveling
through time anymore? It's over?
Of course it's over.
Wherever we are now...
Whenever we are now...
...we're here for good.
- I won't do it.
- OK.
I won't. I'm not...
- I won't...
OK, swell.
Until Dan checks back in,
I say we head back to the beach.
When Locke gets back,
that's where they'll look.
The beach? You didn't get enough
flaming arrows shot at you?
And your camp is gone.
Why bother?
Sawyer's right, Miles.
We should go back to the beach.
We survived before,
we can do it again.
Or when we get there, you'll
wanna go back to The Orchid again.
Then we can head
back to the beach.
It's the only two plans
you people have.
Zip it. I'm heading back to the beach.
Our stuff's there, great.
If not, we build new stuff.
You don't like the plan? Good luck.
Who put him in charge?
Thanks for getting my back.
You should thank me.
It was a stupid idea.
What does that say
about you agreeing?
Any plan's better than no plan.
lfl didn't agree with you, we'd still
be arguing about where to go next.
| just hope you figure out
something better before we get there.
Well, I'm open to suggestions.
Oh, no. No, Paul!
Oh, God! Oh, God! No, no, no, no!
No, please! No!
Please. Please do something.
No, no, no, no. I'm sorry.
We werejust having... Paul, Paul...
Oh, my God. No! No!
Who do you think they are?
Who cares who they are?
We don't even know when they are.
Hey.
Dan!
We don't get involved, right?
That's what you said.
It doesn't matter what we do.
Whatever happened, happened.
Yeah, thanks anyway, Plato.
I'm going over there.
- Still got my back?
- Absolutely.
- Talk to me! Talk to me...
- On your feet!
- No...
- Now!
- Shut up!
- All right, drop the gun.
Don't!
It's all right.
It's OK, you're safe. It's over.
Who are you?
Her friend's wearing
a Dharma jumpsuit.
- That puts us '70s, '80s...
- The guys with the bags...
- Others?
- Beats me.
- What, you all don't know each other?
- Before my time.
Sawyer! Walkie.
- We need to go.
- I'm on it.
Listen, sweetheart,
we gotta get moving now.
Who are you people?
Our ship wrecked on the way
to Tahiti, but that ain't important.
Because whoever's on the end of this?
Those two might've called
before we saved you.
- We have to bury them.
- Bury them?
- We ain't got time to bury nobody.
- We have to! The truce...
Oh, God... we have to bury them.
And we have...
We have to bring him back home.
We have to bring
Paul back with us. Please?
Please?
l'll carry him.
We'll put these guys in the ground,
carry your friend back.
- But we'd better do it fast.
- He wasn't my friend.
He was my husband.
All right, listen up.
There's gonna be
a lot of questions,
so just let me do the talking.
You think you can convince
them we were in a boat wreck?
I'm a professional.
I used to lie for a living.
Daniel! Stop!
- Turn it off.
- Turn what off?
Whatever that is. Looks like
some sort of sonic fence or something.
Where did you say
your ship was going?
We saved your life
and hid those bodies.
How about you trust us
and turn that damn thing off?
OK... OK, fine.
Sonic fence? Didn't I say
let me do the talking?
Dan would've fried his brain.
His brain's already fried.
OK, it's off.
You first.
See? It's fine.
All right. Let's go.
But going forward, we should
all do a betterjob of trusting...
It hurts.
You're going to be OK.
Just try and relax.
Where's Horace?
Does he know his wife's in labor?
- He's unavailable.
- The baby's breech.
- What's that mean?
- Upside-down.
- She needs a cesarean.
- Don't tell me! Just do it!
I'm not an obstetrician.
Our women always
deliver on the mainland.
Amy was supposed to go Tuesday.
The baby's two weeks early.
- Can you deliver this baby or not?
- I don't know.
Hey, Matt! Where is she?
- What's up?
- Amy's having her baby.
- What?
- Did you hear me?
She's in trouble.
Doc says she needs a cesarean.
- We had an agreement.
- Screw our agreement.
He ain't never done one.
I'm guessing you have.
Don't you understand?
Every time I try to help a woman on
this island give birth it hasn't worked.
Maybe whatever made
that happen hasn't happened yet.
You've gotta try.
You gotta help her.
You're the only one who can.
- The baby's breech?
- Yes, but...
Did you try an external
cephalic version?
- No.
- It's too late.
I need a number 12 scalpel, 14 gauge
sutures, half-round if you've got them,
- and an epidural.
- You're gonna need?
- Where is Horace?
- I'm speaking for Horace,
and she's delivering this baby.
- I don't think it's a good idea.
- I want her. I want her to do it.
You heard the lady.
Listen, you're gonna do great.
I know you are.
OK.
Is everything OK?
- Amy went into labor.
- I know.
- Is she OK?
- I don't know. There was a problem.
- Juliet's in there.
- Juliet?
I pulled her out of retirement.
- Any luck?
- We finished grid 133 today...
No sign of our people.
No one.
Well... 134 then.
How long do we look, James?
As long as it takes.
What happened?
- It's a boy.
- He's OK? She's OK?
Everyone's OK.
How's your head?
It hurts.
- Where are my people?
- They're fine.
Amy told me what happened.
I appreciate what you did.
Well, you all got a funny way
of showing your appreciation.
We have a defense protocol.
There are hostile people on this island
and we don't
get along with them. So...
...why don't you tell me
who the hell you are.
My name's James LaFleur.
You can call me Jim.
How did you get
to the island, Jim?
If my friends are safe,
why are you asking me?
They told me I need to talk to you.
That you're the boat captain.
We got caught in a storm,
and our ship wrecked.
Must have hit the reef.
Thankfully we washed up on shore.
- What kind of ship?
- Salvage vessel.
We were searching
for a famous lost wreck.
It's an old slaver out of Portsmouth,
England, called The Black Rock.
- You ever heard of her?
- Can't say that l have.
So, once you got washed ashore,
why were you wandering in the jungle?
Some of our crew were missing...
we were looking.
That's when we came
upon your girl instead.
Well, | tell you what, Jim,
if your crew shows up,
we'll send them with you.
Send them where?
There's a submarine
that leaves in the morning.
You and your friends
are gonna get on it.
It's gonna drop you off in Tahiti.
You can find your way home from there.
Hold on a minute, chief.
We just saved that woman's life.
Doesn't that earn us
a week or two to find our people?
Nope. The only people allowed to stay
are members of the Dharma lnitiative.
I don't want you to take
this the wrong way, Jim...
You are not Dharma material.
We're screwed.
He's probably trying to explain
time travel by now.
Sawyer's gonna be fine.
What are you looking at?
I lived here for over three years.
That was my house over there.
- You were in the Dharma lnitiative?
- No.
The Others took over these barracks
and wiped out most
of the people living in them.
They brought me here
on a sub a long time after that.
Well, welcome home.
Daniel...
No more flash?
No.
No more flash.
The record is spinning again...
We're just not on the song
we want to be on.
Come on, love.
Charlotte.
Hello.
Somebody will be along shortly
to show you to your rooms.
In the meantime, Mr. LaFleur here
can fill you in on the situation.
- Mr. LaFleur?
- lt's Creole. l improvised.
- What happened in there?
- Well, he believed my story.
But we're getting punted.
Bastard's putting us
on their sub to Tahiti.
How's that bad news?
Come on! Inside!
Move, now!
Come on!
Heather, keep an eye on them.
Uh-oh.
Hello, Mr. Alpert.
Hello, Mr. Goodspeed.
| wish you'd told me. I would've
turned the fence off for you.
That fence may keep
other things out. But not us.
The only thing that does
keep us out, Horace, is our truce.
Which you've now broken.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Where are my two men?
You know what? Getting on that sub
is starting to sound like a great idea.
- What do you say? Sub?
- Hold your horses, Banzai.
No one's getting on a sub.
OK, LaFleur...
How well did you bury those bodies?
Depends on how hard he looks.
Call the Arrow.
We're at Condition One.
Take the heavy ordinance.
And make sure the fence is at maximum.
Yes, sir.
- Let me talk to him.
- Excuse me?
Your buddy with the eye-liner.
We had a truce.
You don't understand...
I'm the one
that killed his men.
I'm the one that's
gonna go tell him why.
I can't let you do that.
I ain't asking your permission.
James? Are you sure
you know what you're doing?
Not yet. But I'll figure something out.
Hello, Richard.
I'm sorry, do we know each other?
I'm the guy that killed your men.
Heard some gunshots and saw two men
throwing a bag over a woman's head.
Gave them chance to walk away,
but one of them took a shot at me.
- And | defended myself.
- That so?
That's so.
Your people know
you're telling me this?
They ain't my people, hoss.
So if you got some kind of truce
with them, it ain't been broken.
If you're not a member of the Dharma
lnitiative, then what are you?
- Did you bury the bomb?
- Excuse me?
The hydrogen bomb with "Jughead"
written on the side? Did you bury it?
Yeah, I know about it.
I also know 20 years ago
a bald fella limped into your camp,
fed you some mumbo jumbo
about being your leader.
Then, poof... he went and
disappeared right in front of you.
Any of this ringing a bell?
That man's name is John Locke
and I'm waiting for him to come back.
So, you still think I'm a member
of the damn Dharma lnitiative?
No. I guess I don't.
But no matter who you are,
two of my men are dead.
And my people need
some kind ofjustice.
What are we gonna do about that?
How are you doing, Amy?
- Is he gone? Alpert?
- No. He's not gone.
- We told him where the bodies were.
- Why?
We had to. It was the only
way to maintain the truce.
Jim here worked it out
with him, but...
Well, he's gonna need
something from us now.
He needs to take
Paul's body back with him.
No.
Hey, Ames... listen.
We've been friends
for a long time, yeah?
So, this is completely your choice.
If you don't want to give him to them,
then we will suffer the consequences.
They can take him.
He would want to keep us safe.
Can I have a minute, please?
I'm sorry.
You need some help?
No, I've got it, thanks.
Hey, Jim...
The sub leaving tomorrow
morning returns in two weeks.
Until then, you can stay
and look for the rest of your crew.
Thanks.
Bought us two weeks.
Horace said we can wait
for the next sub.
With any luck,
Locke'll be back by then.
And then what?
What do you mean, "then what?"
Locke said he was leaving to save us.
The flashes have stopped. They're over.
No more bloody noses.
We're already saved.
That sub behind you
brought me here.
I've been trying to get off this island
for three years. Now I've got my chance.
I'm going to leave.
You do realize it's 1974.
Whatever it is you think you're
going back to... It don't exist yet.
That's not a reason not to go.
Well, what about me?
You're gonna leave me
with the mad scientist
and Mr. "I Speak to Dead People"?
And Jin, who's a hell of a nice guy,
but not the greatest conversationalist.
- You'll be fine.
- Maybe...
But who's gonna get my back?
Come on...
Just give me two weeks.
That's all I'm asking for. Two weeks.
All right, two weeks.
- Something smells good.
- Hey there.
Was that for me?
You were amazing today.
Thank you for believing in me.
I love you.
I love you, too.
Wake up, boss.
- How's your head?
- It hurts.
I got good news and bad news.
Which you want first?
Good news.
You're a daddy.
Bad news is you missed it.
Oh, gosh... Amy...
She had the baby?
- It's a boy.
- A boy...
Now how about you tell me
why you were too busy drinking
and blowing up trees
to see him get born?
l was...
l was looking for a pair of socks.
All of mine were dirty
so I went to grab a pair of Amy's.
I found this in
the back of her drawer.
It was Paul's.
- You got in a fight over a necklace?
- I know.
But...
It's only been three years, Jim.
Just three years
that he's been gone.
Is that really long enough
to get over someone?
I had a thing for a girl once.
And I had a shot at her.
But I didn't take it.
For a little while, l'd lay in bed
every night wondering...
...if that was a mistake.
Wondering if...
...l'd ever stop thinking about her.
But now, I can barely
remember what she looks like.
I mean, her face is...
She's just gone.
And she ain't never coming back.
So...
ls three years long enough
to get over someone?
Absolutely.
What?
Wait, what?
No. Don't bring them in.
Just meet me in the north valley.
Who was it?
- James... what's going on?
- That was Jin.
- Everything OK?
- Yeah...
| just...
I gotta go.